---
layout: post
title: "May Journal: Day One"
date: 2025-05-01
tags: 
    - yapping
---

It's May.... and it's a tradition at this point to just journal every day of the month leading up to my birthday which I will not disclose, at least not now. You will eventually find out, because that's when the journaling ends. 

So far my May has been okay. I'm mostly just working on my website as usual. It's been my dream since who knows when to just have my own "infrastructure" that can serve static files about my work. I said infrastructure with quotation marks because I honestly think I can (and will) do better. Right now, the video that's served to the homepage calls a backend server I hosted on [render](https://render.com). It then calls on a secured S3 bucket that was suppose to mimic my private NAS(?) where I store all of my songs and stuffs so it's just easier if I travel or switch device in the future. 

This architecture is, weird, I know because if it's just static files I can just use a public bucket. But again, it's not meant to be a public bucket, I really want it to be my own NAS so it's more of an exercise of secure DevOps practice combined with Linux system administration tasks to automate and orchestrate different parts of my web application. In the end, it will be a self-hosted series of containers, some served to the public some inside a private subnet and they communicate using VPN or some sorts of proxy or something fun like that.... This frontend will also be hosted there obviously, with my own domain and everything. Yeah maybe in a few years..

For now, this solution works and I'm happy about that :]